How does Maven and Gradle differ?
	maven - helps ypu build projects, less scalable, better runtime, responsivness, tdd
	gradle - for bigger projects, more bulky but scales better
What is the final keyword used for?
	public, private, final -> is sscope of same class
	private/final?? you cannot change, not immutable
What is a Parent pom?
	File, for your whole application. Holds all the dependencies. Like the project file.
Why is constructor injection preferred?
	It's like dependency injection. Initialize and ready to use. - Here you would use a
	field injection, field that you use in other class. if you change the other class it can change it. - This can change
What is a Functional Interfaces used for?
	Interface - A single method, lambda
	Functional inteface that uses to modify the class
	You can pass function as an argument. to a class. 
	You extend that interface, chair, instead of primitive type, 
	to use another kind of type that is not a primitive
What is the JVM vs. the JRE?
	JVM - Compiler, java to machine code, Compiles directly down
	JRE - Excecutes, Excecutes the machine code
What does peek do in Streams do?
	Stream - a lambda expression, anonomous function. You can use filters. LINQ. 
	Peek - Peek is a foreach element thing. Multible espressions to query down the data.
Why can't you use generics on primitive types?
	Generics use objects, and primitives are not objects.
What is the result of System.out.println(new String("Hello") == new String("Hello"));? Why?
	False, difference in memory. So you have to use a special operator you need to use.
	references, vs actual value
What is the string pool?
	Special storage - keeps track of all the words and phrazes you write. Helps with memory. 
	Stores each character. String is immutable. instead of program look for it everytime, storage box, RAM
	Heap. The string pool is a part of the heap. Some on heap when used, some in pool. 
	Specific heap location, here are all the strings.
What are Records?
What are annotations?
How can you manage a checked exception?
What is Lombok?
What is the difference between Spring Framework and Spring Boot?